# SpW-Net

Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) reconstruction is a typical inverse problem with the characteristic of ill-posedness and nonlinearity. The reconstructed image based on sensitivity prior suffers from significant shape distortions due to the 'soft-field' nature and the limited measurements. Moreover, the existing learning-based methods still have drawbacks in expressing the complicated boundary and the multiphase distributions because of the insufficient features representation by spatial convolution. In this paper, we proposed a novel dual-domain architecture, called Spatial plus Wavelet Dual-domain Empowering (SpW-Net), to achieve high-quality EIT reconstruction, which learns the shape features and conductivity distributions in both the spatial and wavelet domains. First, the residual fast Fourier convolution is proposed to construct the spatial latent features globally. Second, a (shifted) window-based wavelet vision Transformer is introduced to not only capture multiscale and multifrequency information but also reduces the complexity efficiently. Finally, a dual-domain feature fusion block is proposed to fuse the latent representations in the spatial and wavelet domain adaptively with the attention-wise manner. Extensive experiments on both simulated and real-world data illustrate that SpW-Net performs better regarding visual results and quantitative evaluations (the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) is 3.972±1.931 and the Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) is 0.982±0.010). Further, the reconstructions of our method are more consistent with the ground truth compared with state-of-the-art methods on the public benchmark Kuopio Tomography Challenge 2023 (KTC2023). The SpW-Net could obtain better EIT reconstruction results, especially in complicated shapes and multiphase distributions.

The performances of our SpW-Net and other comparisons are listed as follows:



